It started quietly. No grand
announcements, no hype marketing, just a
simple command line interface that would
change engineering forever. Cloud Code
emerged not as a tool, but as a partner
in a gentic system that understood
context, state, and most importantly,
engineering. It consistently reasons
about code at a level previously thought
impossible. And the crazy part is there
was no rag. There was no UI. Only the
context, the model, and the prompt. The
engineering community watched with a
mixture of skepticism and awe. As early
adopters like you and I started
reporting productivity gains that defied
belief, tasks that once took days were
completed in hours, then minutes as we
improved our agentic coding. It's clear
looking back this time period marks the
beginning of a new phase of engineering.
Welcome back to the channel. In this
video, I want to answer the question and
I want to talk about how cloud code
changed engineering. We spend so much
time planning, building, and learning.
We don't take enough time to stop,
reflect, digest, and think hard about
the incredible things we can do with our
agentic coding tools. By breaking down
how clog code changed engineering, we
can understand the stateofthe-art, which
sets us up for making bets on the future
and prepares us for what's coming next,
so we can make the highest return on
investment bets on our precious
engineering time. How has cloud code
changed engineering? Just like deep
learning worked, the agent architecture
worked. Sam Alman called this out in the
intelligence age post. And just like
deep learning worked, the agent
architecture worked. We're not just
chatting with language models in chat
interfaces. We're commanding compute.
We're prompting agents. We're composing
the language model to the next level of
abstraction, the agent. It's clear that
this transition marks phase 2 of the
generative AI age. But cloud code didn't
change engineering with the agent
architecture alone. It's more than that.
What is claude code really made of? It
has three essential elements that
defines it. A powerful set of language
models that can call any tool in the
right agent loop. This is what makes
cloud code so incredible. You can't have
one of these. You can't have two of
these. You need all three. The
architecture is everything. Don't let
the benchmarks fool you. The performance
from the Cloud 4 series is not
detectable by the benchmarks. We'll
discuss that more in a moment. But you
put powerful LLMs like the Cloud 4
series with a great set of bakedin tools
and the ability to connect to any MCP
server. But that's not it. You need the
agent architecture. You need the agent
loop so that the agent can operate in
the right environment and use the right
information to get the job done just
like you or I would. This is the
architecture behind cloud code. So how
has claude code changed engineering?
It's not just a tool. It's not an
assistant and it's more than a partner.
It's a new engineering primitive, right?
It's a fundamental building block of a
new class of software development. A new
primitive that lets you tap into agents
with a single prompt. That means more
compute at your fingertips at any time
at scale. It's a fundamental building
block. What does that mean exactly?
Cloud code is programmable. From any
terminal, you can call your powerful
agentic coding tool. This is massive. As
engineers, we need the Lego blocks to
solve the problem for our specific use
cases in our specific domains. A lot of
engineering products and tools miss
this. They're too opinionated. There's
too much thought. Speaking of the
terminal, Cloud Code was able to change
software engineering because it operates
in the highest leverage point for
engineers. It's not an accident that
it's in the terminal. This is where us
engineers have maximum control over the
flow of information. We trade off that
initial investment of understanding the
terminal to have massive impact with
minimal friction. It seems so obvious
now in retrospect that this is the
optimal place for an engineering agent.
We have to give shoutouts to the
original AI coding tools like Ader for
starting right in the terminal. And of
course, Claude Code and Enthropic
focused on real engineering. These
aren't toys. These aren't flashy demos.
They change engineering by relentlessly
focusing on true engineering workflows.
Right? Think, plan, build with plan mode
hooks to control and monitor. You can
parallelize your agent. And then of
course, it's programmable. This is a key
feature of true engineering. Can your
tool, can your work be composed? Is it
interoperable? Right? You can build your
own agentic systems with cloud code. And
once you start stacking these together,
I've only listed a few here. Right?
There are many, many more features.
These all help us engineers with our
boots on the ground solve real
engineering problems. It seems so
mind-blowing that no previous tool
really allowed us to tap into our
prompts in a reusable way until Cloud
Code. They did it right. They built
features for real engineering. It's not
just about features. It's not just about
calling tools. Of course, none of this
is possible without their models. And
something incredible happened. Starting
with the Sonnet 3.5 model.
unexplainable,
unttrackable emergent behavior inside of
that model that again doesn't show up in
benchmarks. I have a term for this
because I like to look out for this.
Okay, I call these benchmark ghosting
models. Their performance does not show
up in a benchmark. And you know, you can
see this, right? Open up artificial
analysis, look for sonnet, and just
search through this. You can see this is
not the quote unquote best model on
almost any benchmark. You can look for
Opus and you'll see the exact same
thing, right? By no means is this the
best model. Okay, but then why were we
able to do more with it than any other
model? This is because of emergent
behavior. Something has cracked inside
these models. Okay, they didn't just
pass benchmarks. They made benchmarks
irrelevant. Real world performance can
only be approximated by benchmarks,
right? their their proxies, their
shells, their corlary systems, right?
They don't equal true results, right?
So, I'm not saying benchmarks don't
matter, but models with emergent
behavior that understand, and this is
the important part, your context and
your intent is what matters. And from
sonnet 3.5 to now, and I imagine
whatever anthropic is cooking next, the
way they build their models encodes
intent. It encodes engineering intent.
This is an extremely unique property of
these models. An interesting question
you can ask is how can I find emergent
behaviors inside of models? And so far
my only answer for this is time. You
need to spend time with these models.
And oh boy, I know you and I, a lot of
engineers were spending a lot of time
with these models. So how else has claw
code changed engineering? It's brought
us all back to simplicity, right? As a
core principle. As soon as I heard this
from Boris, it completely made sense.
You can see it. You can feel it in the
tool, right? Simplicity is a property
and a feature. Okay? And I am worried
about this for the future of cloud code.
Every successful application grows. It
grows in complexity. It grows in
features. It slowly becomes something
that it wasn't. I hope that the claico
team, the anthropic team, they stick
with this property. If they don't, the
tool will lose this powerful property
that myself and other engineers uh seek
uh pretty much in everything that we we
do and and in and you know, every tool
that we use. Enthropic has this
beautiful principle um do the simple
thing first inside of principle a
coding. This is the first principle we
discuss and it is keep it simple stupid.
Right? That's our version of it. These
are all the same thing. Simple things
work. And not only do they work, they
work consistently. Also, I don't know if
you've heard the news, but the creators
of Cloud Code, Boris and Cat, are
apparently moving back over to
Anthropic. They were rumored to be
leaving. Now they're rumored to be
coming back uh from Cursor. This tells
me that whatever they saw at Cursor was
not good. Just to call it out here,
sometimes I still boot it up for the tab
model, but that's a great example of an
application that is no longer simple,
right? It was when they started, but now
it's not as simple. And that's not to
say that it's not a great useful tool.
But you can see the difference between
cloud code and many other tools, right?
There's no complexity. It's just the
context window. I said it long ago
as everyone was piping and jumping over
to rag. You want just the context
window. Don't add unnecessary
complexity. Let the model do what it
needs to with the right tools. Right?
Let it search just like you and I
search. Think about the tool you would
use. Great. Now, give the model the tool
you would use. Okay? At least to start.
All right? So, there's no complexity.
It's just a context window. No setup.
Uh, this is something that's really
powerful. A lot of us engineers, we
overthink things. We try to compare and
contrast all the time. Cloud code said
no. Sonnet, Opus, no setup. All right.
And then there's no friction. It's just
the prompt. I still to this day have
opened the application probably tens of
thousands of times. That sounds
ridiculous, but I love opening the
terminal, typing Claude, and this is all
you see, right? It's just this. It's an
input field, and your agent loads things
into its context window, and the LLM
drives decision-m. That's it, right? I
still love that to this day. All right.
Um, you know, the cloud code team,
they've cracked it. AI coding is not
enough. This is something that we have
talked about on the channel. I ran into
this issue very, very early on when I
was using Ader. Writing code is a
fraction of what engineering is. And
this is why vibe coding falls apart even
with powerful agents. Coding is not
enough. It's not just about generating
code. Engineering is about much more
than that. We needed a gentic coding and
now we have it. We needed something that
scales with the complexity of the
problems we face as engineers. The agent
does it and we can use it with agentic
coding. So last thing to call out here,
how has cloud code changed engineering?
It's infinitely scalable. Okay, solving
two problems at once, fire up multiple
parallel sub aents. Are you working on
multiple iterations, multiple problems
at the same time? Open up multiple cloud
code instances, right? Do you need your
own custom multi- aent system? Fire up
programmable mode, right? -p run it from
any terminal. Run it off device. Again,
it's programmable, right? It's a new
foundational unit of engineering. It's a
new engineering primitive.
Okay. So, let's talk about the future.
So, we know where we're at, right? We
have this incredible tool that pushes us
from AI coding into a coding. So, we
have to ask the question, what's next?
So, here are some predictions from the
edge from everything that I can see. We
talk about this on the channel. Go where
the ball will be, not where it is. One
of the trends happening right now,
you're seeing this if you're paying any
attention at all. Multi- aent systems,
not one claw, not two. We're talking
swarms working together in order running
in AI developer workflows, ADWs,
commonly known as agentic workflows.
Each agent specializes. You need that
context window focused on one problem
and then you hand off to another agent.
You see this inside of cloud code. You
can fire up sub agents. That's just the
beginning of what's possible. Together
they form systems more powerful than any
single mind. Okay? And I'm talking about
you and I. You know on the channel we've
we've run some systems that are doing so
much engineering work at one time that
it is is truly hard to follow everything
that's going on. This is where
observability and monitoring comes in.
We talked about agent observability in
our previous couple videos. We're going
to see this become more and more
important and we're going to continue to
see multi- aent systems get used and
built everywhere. All right. So,
dedicated agent environments to support
the scale and potential of the multi-
aent systems we're going to be operating
in. We need dedicated agent
environments. Okay. This is a big trend
and an easy bet to make. This is what
you want, right? As an investor of your
time, money, and attention, you want big
trends that are easy to bet on. And this
is one of them. Okay. So, you know, I
have, and others are starting to do this
as well, I have a dedicated box right
here. All I do in this Mac Mini, all I
do in this device is run agents. They
have full control over this device here.
We're going to be talking about
dedicated agent environments a lot more
on the channel. You can have physical
devices, cloud VMs, and there are even
services that are getting spun up from
nowhere. And one of these companies, I
can guarantee you, is going to become
the new versal for AI agents. This is a
big idea. Um, dedicated agent
environments are something that is going
to happen. It's starting to happen
already, right? You don't want your
agent running on your device, taking
over your device. This is great, but
this back and forth prompting with your
agent is going to be good for you
building these bigger systems. Okay, a
lot more to say on that on the channel.
Make sure you comment and subscribe so
you don't miss that and so you let the
algorithm know you're interested in
this. What's next? What does the future
have for us? What bets can we make as
engineers right now to get ahead of the
curve? Unbelievable automation. This is
not new, but the scale is going to be
new. I don't know if you've had this
experience, but I've gotten some
multi-agent systems up and running that
are so powerful, so complex, it's hard
for me to keep up with what I can do and
with what I can do with these new
systems. Okay, I'm starting to see few
groups of engineers running into this
problem as well, right? The scale is so
big. The workload, they're becoming so
massive. What it used to take teams
months will take minutes. will close the
loop and let the code write itself.
Closing the loop is a principle of AI
coding. You can see all the big labs
going crazy over this idea right now.
And frankly, any good agentic coding
engineer really focuses on this idea,
right? Don't just write a prompt. Write
a prompt and then say validate your work
with X. That creates a closed loop
system. I have something that can help
you understand that concept at the end
of this video. But the key idea here is
massive. We're going to have entire code
bases refactored while you sleep. Test
suites automatically generated
documentation that writes itself. This
is just the beginning of like the
automation that's that is coming and
that some engineers are starting to
crack. So here's a big one. This is an
important one. The engineering gap
continues to widen. There's a lot of
talk about the zero to 1x engineer, you
know, using tools like lovable. They are
able to do more than ever. That's great.
That's true. But there's a really
interesting gap between the 1 to 10x
engineer and the 0ero to 1x engineer
where they just stop. There's a point
where they can't build any bigger. They
can't build any more value because they
don't know what's going on. I do believe
that the gap will widen and then shrink
as the tools progress and as our agents
become that much more powerful. But
there's going to be a dark age here,
right? a a dark age where, you know,
senior plus level engineers, mid-level
plus engineers using these tools, your
10xers on your team, in your company,
the difference between them and then,
you know, your mid and below engineers,
your noobs, your vibe coders, it's going
to be mindblowingly massive. And it's
because when they watch an Indy Dev Dan
video, they understand what's going on
underneath, right? They know that when I
gloss over, you know, certain syntax or
the way I organize functions or the way
I organize the codebase, the runtime of
a specific method, you know, that's a
great example, right? They know that you
can prompt and discuss, you know,
logarithmic runtime of a specific piece
of code and have a discussion about
optimizing it, moving it. There are many
core engineering ideas like runtime
complexity, low-level architecture, why
we use certain frameworks, why you use
certain tools, tool mastery, right? Even
things like understanding what the
terminal can do and how you can
customize and modify your terminal.
There are tons of examples of beginner
engineers, they will just never learn
this stuff. Some of you guys will, some
of you guys are really smart and you'll
use these tools to learn instead of just
use the tools to build, right? There's a
big difference there. A lot of vibe
coders are just building. They're not
learning. But anyway, I don't want to
harp on this one too much. I just want
to mention that there is still time to
choose which side you're on. Use these
tools to learn. You're mid senior level
plus engineer. Don't become an old dog.
Keep investing in learning new
engineering, right? Learning the
generative AI way to do things. Okay?
Because it's not the same, right? This
is a new skill. AI coding is a new
skill. Agentic coding is a new skill,
right? The way you prompt these systems
continually evolves, right? The way you
add context continually evolves. I don't
care if you call it prompt engineering
or context engineering. It's going to
keep changing and evolving. All right?
So, take some time, always invest in
your tool. Always keep learning, right?
Because the engineering gap is going to
widen massively before it shrinks again.
And lastly, this is really important.
This is a great call out for engineers
and teams looking for that next product.
Agents are going viral. Okay, they're
going to go viral over these next couple
years. Cloud code is the agent for
engineering, but there are hundreds of
domains where agents don't exist yet,
but where they can be created and
deployed. You know what that smells
like? What do we smell there? That's
called opportunity. Okay, if you're a
builder, if you're a creator and you're
in one of these domains, right, you do
want a domain advantage. If you're in
one of these domains, right, or any
domain, um the amount of of TAM, total
addressable market ready for disruption
for you, for your team, for your
company. This is a massive opportunity.
agents go viral and of course you know
it's natural that the first agent right
the best piece of technology would
emerge for the technology builders which
is you and I agents are going viral this
is a big opportunity uh this is a future
direction of where agents are going of
where agentic coding is going so on and
so forth all right the evidence is super
clear this channel is one of the first
to cover cloud code before all the hype
before you know everyone in their mom
starts using you know cloud code we
covered it first. This is the place to
be for agent coding on the edge for
really just that next phase of
engineering. So again, I don't know how
many times I can see TA in one video,
but comment, subscribe, like, you know
what to do. Tell the algorithm you're
interested. All right, we were here
since the beginning and we're going to
be here until the end. Okay, we're in
the age of agents, okay? It's phase two.
After decades of failed AI promises, the
agent architecture has delivered. All
right, so take action. Couple call outs
for you, you know, as a thank you for
making it to the end of the video, for
sticking around. I always aim to provide
value for engineers here every single
week. Master Claw Code. Everyone else is
copying cloud code. All right, you saw
it with the CodeCli. You saw it with the
Gemini CLI. You see it with open source.
It's fine. Copying is great. This is how
we grow and improve, right? There are
copycats everywhere. First, you copy,
then you innovate. Whatever. Right now,
this is the tool to master. Okay. Scale
up your compute. More prompts, better
prompts than more agents. If you can't
use one cloud code instance, getting an
agent device makes no sense for you.
Scaling up more agents, using sub
agents, it makes no sense for you. Okay?
So, step up one step at a time. Scale
your compute. More prompts, better
prompts than more agents. All right? You
can do a lot more with the right prompt
than you think. All right? And I'm
looking at all of you who think your
codebase is too big. Okay? No, you just
haven't written the right prompts. All
right? solve bigger problems. Right? On
that same note, keep your agents running
longer and then longer. Okay? These
things can run for tens of minutes, half
an hour, and if you set it up right,
they can run for hours. Agents, okay?
Solving problems, building things, doing
research. It's happening right now. All
right. So, that's that. Uh, focus on
principles, not tools, not models. I
know some of you that have been with the
channel, you know, forgive me. Um, but
it's important to keep plugging for
engineers before the next big course
hits. If you want to get a asymmetric
advantage on your time, I definitely
recommend you check out principled AI
coding. This is my take on how to master
the principles of AI coding. AI coding
came first. We're now agentic coding.
All the principles of AI coding directly
apply to agentic coding. Okay, agentic
coding is a superset of AI coding. You
want to focus on principles, not tools.
All right? and you want to master the
big three, that's going to show up in
every tool, in every agent, in every
multi- aent system context model prompt.
I'm not going to pitch this for too much
longer because the next phase 2 agent
coding course is coming. I am killing
the limited time discount after this
week. All right, this goes up to the
full price. This is risk-free. There is
a no questions asked refund before
lesson 4. If you get in here, if you
think it's outdated, if you can't make
the connection that it's about
principles, not tools, not models,
that's fine. Let me know. I'll refund
you in full. The next course is coming
focused on agentic coding and most
importantly focused on you. There's so
much work that you're doing now that you
don't need to be doing. The next course
we're going to tackle that problem head
on with of course the brand new
engineering primitive claw code. By the
way, anyone that has taken principal a
coding will receive a massive discount
on the next agentic coding course. a
little extra bonus and thank you for
everyone that's taken the course,
everyone that's trusted me with their
time and attention. Thousands of
engineers have been here and have gotten
massive value out of principal AI
coding. We discuss a lot of the big
ideas that are now popular. You know,
when we put this out, they were a lot
less popular. I'll just say it that way.
Plan-based coding, right? Specs,
programmability, and we talk about
closing the loop. This idea is
everything. This is in lesson seven. Let
the code write itself. That's that,
right? So, focus on principles, not
tools, not models. Both of these will
change. These never change. All right?
Principles never change. Subscribe,
comment, let me know where you're taking
your agentic development. You know where
to find me every single Monday. Thanks
so much for watching. Stay focused and
keep building.